
ARAGULA
Drew Slane, the executive chef at Mohicans Treehouse Resort, told Insider that a simple arugula salad is an ideal choice at most restaurants. 

"Arugula salad is one of the greatest and safest salads you can order," said Slane. "As there are only a few ingredients required, most chefs take the time to source high-quality produce."

Because arugula salad is often served with few toppings, you can usually ask the kitchen to add additional mix-ins to customize your meal.


BEET & GOAT CHEESE
Professional chef Mila Furman told Insider that even beet-haters should try ordering a beet and goat cheese salad. 

"If you are not a fan of beets, this salad will change that," said Furman. "The peppery arugula, crunchy candied pecans, and tangy balsamic vinaigrette make for a magical flavor combination."

Diners who don't like creamy goat cheese can ask the kitchen to substitute feta cheese for a similar flavor profile. 


COBB
Far from a simple side dish, Cobb salad is packed with hearty ingredients like avocado, hard-boiled egg, chicken, and bacon.

Many restaurants serve Cobb salad with blue cheese and red-wine vinegar dressing.

"A real Cobb salad has every ingredient you could want and is big enough to be your main course," said Slane. "Best of all, there's usually enough to bring home."


TABBOULEH
Tabbouleh is a Mediterranean salad made with lots of finely chopped parsley, mint, onion, and bulgur wheat. It's usually served with tomatoes and topped with lemon juice, olive oil, salt, and pepper. 

"Tabbouleh satisfied my three big requirements when it comes to salads: It's cheap, delicious, and really good for you," Slane told Insider. "I order it whenever I see it on a menu, no matter what else I'm eating."


PANZANELLA
Panzanella is a classic Tuscan salad full of juicy tomatoes, crisp cucumbers, and large, crunchy croutons. It's usually topped with olive oil and vinegar. 

"This old-school bread salad is a hidden gem on any menu. It is particularly great in the summer months when tomatoes are super ripe and juicy," said Furman.


GRAIN-BASED
Professional chef and cooking-show host Jennifer Hill Booker told Insider that salads made with grains are great for satisfying big appetites.

"Salads made with a base of hearty ingredients like quinoa, couscous, and brown rice are perfect when you want more than just salad greens," she said. "They offer the fresh crunch of a traditional salad but are more satisfying."


HOUSE
Unless you're in the mood for wrinkly tomatoes and limp greens, Furman said, you may want to avoid ordering a restaurant's house salad.  

"Steer clear of the house salad, as 'house' typically means leftovers. It's usually just a few iceberg lettuce leaves with some cold tomato wedges," said Furman. 

When in doubt, ask your server for a description of the house salad before placing your order.


<ESCLUN-BASED
Mesclun is a mix of assorted young salad greens, often including tender leaves of arugula, lettuce, endive, and chervil. Unfortunately, mesclun has a tendency to quickly become soggy and slimy. 

"Have you ever looked at a bag of day-old mesclun greens and noticed a dark liquid forming at the bottom of the bag? The same thing happens at restaurants, and they hold onto those greens even longer than you do," Slane said.

Instead, he said he recommends opting for salads built on a base of iceberg lettuce for maximum crunch and crispness.


